README.md, before:

# SRVB
# Template with SvelteKit, Typescript, Skeleton and Elementary

* MIT Licensed ⤵︎
* ▷ [SkeletonUI](https://www.skeleton.dev/)
* ▷ [Elementary](https://github.com/elemaudio/elementary)  
* ▷ [SvelteKit](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte)

This is a template for building audio plugins with SvelteKit, Skeleton, Typescript and Elementary. It is by no means a clean and simple process. Making plug-ins *is* rocket science in my experience... So anyway, this repo is still a work in progress and rather undocumented. Get your pot-holing gear on.

 The whole thing is based on the [SRVB](https://github.com/elemaudio/srvb) example from Elementary, which is using React and Tailwind. I have replaced React with SvelteKit and Tailwind with Skeleton UI which is wrapping Tailwind with extra features. Probably a lot more than you would ever need in a plugin, but I didn't want to cherry pick! I also put in the radial dial from my own funky Svelte UI implementation ▷ [PrecisUI](https://github.com/cristianvogel/Precis-UI)

If you haven't worked with `git submodule` before, ok. Open [this chapter](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules) in a tab. Notice this bit -
> When you clone such a project, by default you get the directories that contain submodules, but none of the files within them yet.

Basically, nothing will work until all the submodules and their deps are downloaded. That's a lot of stuff, JUCE, Elementary, CHOC. You want to see a folder called `native` being populated on your local machine, with the contents of these libraries from an exact commit ID

Some things to try;

```git submodule status```
if nothing happens, then the submodules are not initialised at all.

I have found that after making a new repository from the template (this or the original at [Elementary](), you still need to manually add the submodules. Like this;




---

_What follows here is the original ReadMe from SRVB repo_

 **DEFINITELY READ ⤵︎**

SRVB is a small digital reverb audio plugin (VST3/AU) for MacOS and Windows.

This project demonstrates one way to write an audio plugin using JavaScript and
familiar web technologies, and while there are several variants on this approach,
it is meant to be both a compelling example and a good starting point for audio
plugins made with a similar architecture.

## Overview

The software architecture in this plugin is much like [Tauri](https://tauri.app/) and similar to
[Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/). The user interface is a simple Vite, React, and Tailwind app
at the root of the repository, which is packaged into the plugin app bundle and loaded into a native
webview instance owned by the plugin at runtime.

The audio processing algorithm in the `dsp/` directory is also written in
JavaScript using [Elementary](https://elementary.audio), and is run in a separate
engine which directs the underlying native plugin audio processing. The native
plugin itself provides the harness for these two frontend JavaScript bundles,
and interfaces with the plugin host (typically a DAW) to coordinate the user
interface and the audio processing loop.

## Elementary

If you're new to Elementary Audio, [Elementary](https://elementary.audio) is a JavaScript/C++ library for building audio applications.

* **Declarative:** Elementary makes it simple to create interactive audio processes through functional, declarative programming. Describe your audio process as a function of your application state, and Elementary will efficiently update the underlying audio engine as necessary.
* **Dynamic:** Most audio processing frameworks and tools facilitate building static processes. But what happens as your audio requirements change throughout the user journey? Elementary is designed to facilitate and adapt to the dynamic nature of modern audio applications.
* **Portable:** By decoupling the JavaScript API from the underlying audio engine (the "what" from the "how"), Elementary enables writing portable applications. Whether the underlying engine is running in the browser, an audio plugin, or an embedded device, the JavaScript layer remains the same.

Find more in the [Elementary repository on GitHub](https://github.com/elemaudio/elementary) and the documentation [on the website](https://elementary.audio/).

## Getting Started

### Dependencies

Before running the following steps, please make sure you have the following dependencies installed and
available at the command line:

* [CMake](https://cmake.org/)
* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en)
* Bash: the build steps below expect to run scripts in a Bash environment. For Windows machines, consider running the following steps in a Git Bash environment, or with WSL.

Next, we fetch the SRVB project and its dependencies,

```bash
# Clone the project with its submodules
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/elemaudio/srvb.git
cd srvb

# Install npm dependencies
npm install
```

### Develop

```bash
npm run dev
```

In develop mode, the native plugin is compiled to fetch its JavaScript assets from localhost, where subsequently we
run the Vite dev server to serve those assets. This arrangement enables Vite's hot reloading behavior for developing
the plugin while it's running inside a host.

### Release

```bash
npm run build
```

In release builds, the JavaScript bundles are packaged into the plugin app bundle so that the resulting bundle
is relocatable, thereby enabling distribution to end users.

### Troubleshooting

* After a successful build with either `npm run dev` or `npm run build`, you
  should have local plugin binaries built and copied into the correct
  audio plugin directories on your machine. If you don't see them, look in
  `./native/build/scripted/SRVB_artefacts` and copy them manually
* **Note**: the CMake build on Windows attempts to copy the VST3 plugin binary
  into `C:\Program Files`, a step that requires admin permissions. Therefore
  you should either run your build as an admin, or disable the copy plugin step
  in `native/CMakeLists.txt` and manually copy the plugin binary after build.
* **Note**: especially on MacOS, certain plugin hosts such as Ableton Live have
  strict security settings that prevent them from recognizing local unsigned
  binaries. You'll want to either add a codesign step to your build, or
  configure the security settings of your host to address this.

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE.md)

This project also uses [JUCE](https://juce.com/), which is licensed GPLv3. Please consult JUCE's license
agreement if you intend to distribute your own plugin based on this template.

Commit message:

open the pod bay doors HAL

README.md, after:

# SRVB
## Audio plugin template with SvelteKit, Typescript, Skeleton and Elementary.Audio

* MIT Licensed ⤵︎
* ▷ [Elementary](https://github.com/elemaudio/elementary)  
* ▷ [SvelteKit](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte)
* ▷ [SkeletonUI](https://www.skeleton.dev/)

This is a template for building audio plugins with Elementary, SvelteKit, Tailwind (via SkeletonUI). It is by no means a simple process. The native plugins have a front end running in ...
>**..the world's most hassle-free single-header WebView class!**

..thanks to the brilliant audio OSS team behind [CHOC](https://github.com/Tracktion/choc) and JUCE.

Ok. I won't pretend that building native plug-ins is not rocket science. _It is._

>**Open the pod bay doors HAL.**

 This template is a fork of the [SRVB](https://github.com/elemaudio/srvb) example from Elementary Audio, which uses React and Tailwind. I went about replacing React with SvelteKit and Tailwind with Skeleton UI which is a nice Svelte-y Tailwind based UI library, with loads of webdesign features. Probably a lot more than you would ever need in a plugin. I also put in the radial dial from my own funky Svelte UI implementation ▷ [PrecisUI](https://github.com/cristianvogel/Precis-UI)

The Elementary team have automated things as much as possible, and the template also uses subtly complex `git submodules` technology. If you haven't worked with a `git submodule` before, ok. Open [this chapter](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules) in a tab. Notice this bit -
> When you clone such a project, by default you get the directories that contain submodules, but none of the files within them yet.

Basically, nothing will work until all the submodules and their deps are downloaded. That's a lot of stuff for this scripted build repo; namely JUCE, Elementary, CHOC. You want to see a folder called `native` being populated on your local machine, with the contents of these libraries, being checked out from a precise commit ID. You may run into build problems, if the latest version of JUCE is pulled, so be aware that the commit ID's are the correct ones. I have seen this working all the way to finished artifacts with;

* `juce @ 69795dcz`
* `elementary @ c16e089`
* `choc @ de61da5`

I have found that after making a new repository from the template (this or the original at [Elementary](), you still need to manually clone the submodules.

```
git clone --recursive <repository>
```

For example, if you are using the template from my fork, replace `<repository>` with `https://github.com/cristianvogel/srvb-plugin-svelte`

To go all the way into a native build, will involve installing the CMake dependency and running the CMake scripts that Nick and collaborators have kindly setup. They do work fine, at the time of writing this. Read the original guide attached below.

Running `npm run dev` will script the full native dev environment which impressively allows hot-swap _jit_  developing updating changes to the plugin running natively inside a DAW host ( 😎 !)

Building that environment can take a while and be frustrating if there are bugs, so I added a `npm run dev-ui` option to run dev the UI part in a localhost browser page and iterate on that rapidly. Obviously no native binding will happen there.

_Buena suerte!_

---

_What follows here is the original ReadMe from SRVB repo_

 **DEFINITELY READ ⤵︎**

SRVB is a small digital reverb audio plugin (VST3/AU) for MacOS and Windows.

This project demonstrates one way to write an audio plugin using JavaScript and
familiar web technologies, and while there are several variants on this approach,
it is meant to be both a compelling example and a good starting point for audio
plugins made with a similar architecture.

## Overview

The software architecture in this plugin is much like [Tauri](https://tauri.app/) and similar to
[Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/). The user interface is a simple Vite, React, and Tailwind app
at the root of the repository, which is packaged into the plugin app bundle and loaded into a native
webview instance owned by the plugin at runtime.

The audio processing algorithm in the `dsp/` directory is also written in
JavaScript using [Elementary](https://elementary.audio), and is run in a separate
engine which directs the underlying native plugin audio processing. The native
plugin itself provides the harness for these two frontend JavaScript bundles,
and interfaces with the plugin host (typically a DAW) to coordinate the user
interface and the audio processing loop.

## Elementary

If you're new to Elementary Audio, [Elementary](https://elementary.audio) is a JavaScript/C++ library for building audio applications.

* **Declarative:** Elementary makes it simple to create interactive audio processes through functional, declarative programming. Describe your audio process as a function of your application state, and Elementary will efficiently update the underlying audio engine as necessary.
* **Dynamic:** Most audio processing frameworks and tools facilitate building static processes. But what happens as your audio requirements change throughout the user journey? Elementary is designed to facilitate and adapt to the dynamic nature of modern audio applications.
* **Portable:** By decoupling the JavaScript API from the underlying audio engine (the "what" from the "how"), Elementary enables writing portable applications. Whether the underlying engine is running in the browser, an audio plugin, or an embedded device, the JavaScript layer remains the same.

Find more in the [Elementary repository on GitHub](https://github.com/elemaudio/elementary) and the documentation [on the website](https://elementary.audio/).

## Getting Started

### Dependencies

Before running the following steps, please make sure you have the following dependencies installed and
available at the command line:

* [CMake](https://cmake.org/)
* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en)
* Bash: the build steps below expect to run scripts in a Bash environment. For Windows machines, consider running the following steps in a Git Bash environment, or with WSL.

Next, we fetch the SRVB project and its dependencies,

```bash
# Clone the project with its submodules
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/elemaudio/srvb.git
cd srvb

# Install npm dependencies
npm install
```

### Develop

```bash
npm run dev
```

In develop mode, the native plugin is compiled to fetch its JavaScript assets from localhost, where subsequently we
run the Vite dev server to serve those assets. This arrangement enables Vite's hot reloading behavior for developing
the plugin while it's running inside a host.

### Release

```bash
npm run build
```

In release builds, the JavaScript bundles are packaged into the plugin app bundle so that the resulting bundle
is relocatable, thereby enabling distribution to end users.

### Troubleshooting

* After a successful build with either `npm run dev` or `npm run build`, you
  should have local plugin binaries built and copied into the correct
  audio plugin directories on your machine. If you don't see them, look in
  `./native/build/scripted/SRVB_artefacts` and copy them manually
* **Note**: the CMake build on Windows attempts to copy the VST3 plugin binary
  into `C:\Program Files`, a step that requires admin permissions. Therefore
  you should either run your build as an admin, or disable the copy plugin step
  in `native/CMakeLists.txt` and manually copy the plugin binary after build.
* **Note**: especially on MacOS, certain plugin hosts such as Ableton Live have
  strict security settings that prevent them from recognizing local unsigned
  binaries. You'll want to either add a codesign step to your build, or
  configure the security settings of your host to address this.

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE.md)

This project also uses [JUCE](https://juce.com/), which is licensed GPLv3. Please consult JUCE's license
agreement if you intend to distribute your own plugin based on this template.
